I had to go about the sprayers and everything. Why
don't you go ahead and tell me a little bit more
about that and how y'all treated the boll weevil?
Well, that's about the... We didn't have very good
luck with the boll weevils. We still have the boll
weevils. You take the cotton region, but we live
with them anyway. And as the price of cattle went
up, take for instance, I owned the gin and of course
we didn't make, so got to where we didn't make too
much cotton. The gin went down, went out. We just
discontinued the gin and then we went into living
of raising more livestock. And as livestock had
their ups and downs, the cattle prices would go
down and go up as they do today. We raised lots of
turkeys in our community here. Well, what did
y'all do? Take the turkeys to market and sell them?
We had a good market for turkeys. There was a good
market all over the state for turkeys. And every
farm home would have eight or nine turkey hens and
raise eight or ten turkeys apiece. And they'd eat
grasshoppers. They fed off of grasshoppers? They
fed off of grasshoppers. I had ten turkey hens and I
raised, I had a hundred turkeys, young turkeys and
they just grazed around and eat the acorns from the
trees in the fall of the year and they eat all the
grasshoppers. The grasshoppers were especially
bad for the corn, you see, and they'd eat those
grasshoppers. Later on we began to go more into it
as a commercial deal. We, we We went to feed those
turkeys, and some places we sold turkey eggs for a
dollar a piece. I had a hundred turkey hens.
We had a big hatchery here in Bryan, a Casemore
hatchery over there, and we sold them turkeys.
What did y'all feed the turkeys? I mean, as feed,
what did you use? Grain, mixed feed, regular
turkey feed. There's a big market. They put
markets all over the state for turkeys. They have
those dressing places where they dress the young
turkeys, kill them, and you could buy your
Christmas turkeys.
It was a big business for a while, then it died down.
We went more into the cattle business later on.
Well, you mentioned, you know, y'all quit using
the gin and everything. Do you remember the
purchase, the first purchase of new pieces of
equipment, you know, like cultivators and stuff
like that? Can you remember the days that y'all...
I didn't buy no... I bought...
We used horses and mules at the time I was first
there and we had cultivators what we call walking
cultivators and then later on they began to be
mechanized and and they have the big tractors and
things like that and they raised lots of land I mean
raised lots of cotton and corn in the browser's
bottoms and the creek bottoms.
Did the drought of, wasn't there a drought in 1925?
Yes. That you said, did that affect your life
greatly? Oh yes, oh yes. Well how'd y'all manage to
get along then? Well we, we, trouble was to have, we
had a well and we used, drained by the barrel, used
by the barrel of water and that's how we all would
get that day until it seeped back in there. You had
to be pretty close. We lost lots of cows. Well, was
there, when you were growing up, you know, as a
young man, was there any motion picture shows
around here? No, no. I don't remember any. We got
out when we were young folks and chunkwashed nests
and went coon hunting and things like that. When
you, like you mentioned, going to parties and
everything, what kind of games did y'all play, did
you? Well, we played those same old games we're
playing today. I don't know. I ain't called a name
to them. Oh. Go ahead and tell me a few. Let's see. I
don't know. Ring Around the Roses and Dr. Hankship
and all those things. And we had a game we played
called Snap. We didn't do so much dancing, but we
did some dancing, too. Then dancing came in. What
did this game, Snap, what did that involve? Well,
there was a boy and a girl holed up, and then the boy
picked some girl to catch him and run around it, run
around each other. Oh. Did you ever play that? No,
sir. Did you ever hear it? Where did you read it? San
Antonio. San Antonio. Wasn't there, in the
county, wasn't there the old San Antonio Road
is... Yes, it's up above this county up here, the
north end of the county. The old San Antonio Road
came through there. Was that just a direct route
from San Antonio? It was a direct route through
there. The early settlers used King's Highway.
They called it the King's Highway. How come? Do you
know why? No, I don't know. That's just the name
they give it. It's an old San Antonio Road and they
call it the King's Highway. Do you remember your
father ever traveling on that, or did y'all do
that? Yeah, I traveled it later on. I didn't travel
it too early. Not in my early days, I didn't travel
it. But it was a very much popular, a much used road
at that time. See, Texas was, you might say, in
those early days, it wasn't settled.
Okay, well, did y'all, so then as vehicles, y'all
used wagons and stuff like that? Wagons and
buggies. Okay, well, what were some of the common
problems with the wagons? I mean, did y'all, like,
did the wheels? Well, the wheels, of course, we
used wagons to raise, pull the cotton, and we used
our soil piece in the paper. Dave made me think, and
I go back to that. We used oxen, too. We had oxen at
that time. And we had those oxen to use to pull
cotton and to plow. My, uh, my daddy had a fire yoga
oxen down in the creek bottom where we are still on
that land over there yet. And they used those oxen
to plow.
And that was mainly how y'all got into town and
stuff? It was... Well, we went there, we had
buggies. We went in buggies. Oh. Every family had a
buggy and a horse. And we'd go to town every
Saturday, buy groceries. Did y'all spend all day
Saturday in town, usually? Oh, not every day. We'd
just go there. You had to go buy groceries and buy
things and things, just like you do now. Of course,
now you can go there and come back in a few minutes,
you see, and buy your groceries and car. Well, can
you remember, I mean, has the role of the woman
changed very much? The female, do you think,
since, I mean? I don't think. too much. They have
been,
well, they, yes, I don't want to get in the door
as a woman to live. Well,
what was mine and their function? I mean, were
they? They, they, they cared for the household,
raised children, and raised the families. Do you
ever remember your mother attending any quilting
days? Yes, we had quilting parties. They had
quilting parties. I gave a lady up the road here a
pair of old quilting things the other day. I found a
pair I had in the shed. They usually have quiltings
and quilts. My wife, during that Depression, I
didn't mention that, during that Depression, the
government gave cotton. And she
taught them how to make mattresses. They'd give
them cotton, bale after bale. They had the cotton,
you see. And every family in this community,
nearly all of them that wanted a mattress, which
nearly all of them did, and some of them got three,
they'd make a mattress. And they could make those
mattresses out of that cotton. They knew how to do
it. They learned how to do it. The government did
that. Oh, to help the... During the Depression,
put it during that. Okay, well you mentioned that
your wife was working with the... Yes, she helped
in all the club work and she was a great worker with
the club women of the county. She was a member of the
Harvey Community Club and they had this, they had
the parties that meet once a week or something like
that. and have quilting bees, and have baby
showers.
Well, somebody had mentioned to me that they used
to hold a dance type thing where the men would all
try to grow their beards up to a certain period, you
know, and the ladies would come dressed in
colonial dresses. Do you remember anything about
this? Yeah, they did that for two years. I didn't
have a heavy beard like he's got.
So then for social, y'all just, social life, y'all
just had parties and stuff like that? Yes, we had
our church and, well they had plenty of
entertainment for people. They were not hurt for
entertainment. Okay. Do you remember... Played
ball,
baseball,
basketball,
football, just like the dude did. I got pictures of
where I played football over at Sam Houston
Normal.
Well do you remember anything like, were there
ever any really what you would call saloons?
Saloon? Yes. I don't remember there was a saloon.
We had saloons here in Brown and of course there was
quite a little bit of drinking but nothing.
Well, do you remember anything, I mean, like
barroom brawls, like they would call them? No, I
don't remember that. I'm kidding, I wouldn't
think about it.
Which I know they had, all right, of course. But
Bryan was a very
nice town, one of the quiet towns. It was a college
town. We had A&M College over there, you see. We
always looked after A&M College, and A&M College
has looked after us. We've always spoke of Brown as
being a city of schools. We had the Allen Academy
and several others. We've had good high schools,
good things like that. Well, do you remember any
certain thing that made the most impact on you?
Anything that happened while you were growing up
here in Bryan, or anything that influenced you a
whole lot, stands out in your life? Well, one of the
things that I said, we were busy making a living.
Everybody helped to make a living. Every family
raised chickens, hogs. Had our own eggs. We had our
own garden. and things like that. So did you, as you
farmed and was ranching and everything, did you
have any tenant farmers? Yes, I had. One time I had
six tenant farmers' families. I had houses back
over in the places over there. They're torn down
now. I had six telephones. Did you, do you ever
recall your grandfather talking about slavery or
anything? Yes, he had no, I remember that very
distinctly. When they came in here, came to Texas,
the old slave came with him. And he stayed with him.
And he had slaves back in Alabama. And
They loved the old slaves. The slaves loved the
master. They didn't have no trouble with him. Do
you happen to recall this slave's name? I'm just
trying to think of that old slave's name.
I can't think of it. Well, I think it's about run
through. I think I can ask you, can you think of
anything that you might want to tell me right
offhand? I can think of anything you want to
just...
And I believe the government is trying to come
back, come along the same way to try to help people.
They're reducing, they want to reduce taxes
and It would be a great benefit to people that need
it, you see.